Part One: Solidify Terminology
In your own terms, define the following terms:

What is HTTP?
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol is governs how clients get data from, or send data to, a server

What is a URL?
Uniform Resource Locator, it is the address for some internet resource

What is DNS?
Domain Name System, this is a system that takes human-readable URLs and converts them into IP addresses

What is a query string?
The query string allows you to pass key-value pairs into the URL, in the format ?key1=value1&key2=value2

What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different?
GET- get some data from the server
POST- send some data to the server

What is an HTTP request?
It is the request from a client to a server which follows the HTTP protocol (eg. a request from HTML page from a website news.google.com)

What is an HTTP response?
It is the response from a server to a client which follows the HTTP protocol (eg. sending back HTML/CSS)

What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.
HTTP header provided additional information about the request and response.
Eg. Request headers: Host, User-Agent, Accept, Cookie, Cache-Control
Response headers: Content-Type, Last Modified, Set-Cookie, Cache-Control

What are the processes that happen when you type “http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?
- The browser resolves the name into an IP address using DNS
- Your browser makes a request to that IP address, including headers (info about browser, any previous cookies, and other things)
- The server sends a response (HTML, with the status code eg. 200, 304)
- The browser makes a DOM from that HTML, and finds any other resource needed (images, CSS, JS, etc)
The browser makes seperate HTTP requests for those resource and receives reponse from the server for each



Part Two: Practice Tools

Using curl, make a GET request to the icanhazdadjoke.com API to find all jokes involving the word “pirate”

curl -v https://icanhazdadjoke.com/search?term=pirate

Use dig to find what the IP address is for icanhazdadjoke.com
dig https://icanhazdadjoke.com  
192.168.11.1

Make a simple web page and serve it using python3 -m http.server. Visit the page in a browser.



Part Three: Explore Dev Tools
Build a very simple HTML form that uses the GET method (it can use the same page URL for the action) when the form is submitted.

Add a field or two to the form and, after submitting it, explore in Chrome Developer tools how you can view the request and response headers.

Edit the page to change the form type to POST, refresh in the browser and re-submit. Do you still see the field in the query string? Explore in Chrome how you can view the request and response headers, as well as the form data.



